<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## Components

With this module is possible to manage components inside the canvas. You can customize the initial state of the module from the editor initialization, by passing the following [Configuration Object][1]

```js
const editor = grapesjs.init({
 domComponents: {
   // options
 }
})
```

Once the editor is instantiated you can use its API and listen to its events. Before using these methods, you should get the module from the instance.

```js
// Listen to events
editor.on('component:create', () => { ... });

// Use the API
const cmp = editor.Components;
cmp.addType(...);
```

## Available Events

*   `component:create` - Component is created (only the model, is not yet mounted in the canvas), called after the init() method
*   `component:mount` - Component is mounted to an element and rendered in canvas
*   `component:add` - Triggered when a new component is added to the editor, the model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:remove` - Triggered when a component is removed, the model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:remove:before` - Triggered before the remove of the component, the model, remove function (if aborted via options, with this function you can complete the remove) and options (use options.abort = true to prevent remove), are passed as arguments to the callback
*   `component:clone` - Triggered when a component is cloned, the new model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:update` - Triggered when a component is updated (moved, styled, etc.), the model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:update:{propertyName}` - Listen any property change, the model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:styleUpdate` - Triggered when the style of the component is updated, the model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:styleUpdate:{propertyName}` - Listen for a specific style property change, the model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:selected` - New component selected, the selected model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:deselected` - Component deselected, the deselected model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:toggled` - Component selection changed, toggled model is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:type:add` - New component type added, the new type is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:type:update` - Component type updated, the updated type is passed as an argument to the callback
*   `component:drag:start` - Component drag started. Passed an object, to the callback, containing the `target` (component to drag), `parent` (parent of the component) and `index` (component index in the parent)
*   `component:drag` - During component drag. Passed the same object as in `component:drag:start` event, but in this case, `parent` and `index` are updated by the current pointer
*   `component:drag:end` - Component drag ended. Passed the same object as in `component:drag:start` event, but in this case, `parent` and `index` are updated by the final pointer
*   `component:resize` - During component resize.

## Methods

*   [getWrapper][2]

*   [getComponents][3]

*   [addComponent][4]

*   [clear][5]

*   [addType][6]

*   [getType][7]

*   [getTypes][8]

*   [Component]: component.html

## getWrapper

Returns root component inside the canvas. Something like `<body>` inside HTML page
The wrapper doesn't differ from the original Component Model

### Examples

```javascript
// Change background of the wrapper and set some attribute
var wrapper = cmp.getWrapper();
wrapper.set('style', {'background-color': 'red'});
wrapper.set('attributes', {'title': 'Hello!'});
```

Returns **[Component]** Root Component

## getComponents

Returns wrapper's children collection. Once you have the collection you can
add other Components(Models) inside. Each component can have several nested
components inside and you can nest them as more as you wish.

### Examples

```javascript
// Let's add some component
var wrapperChildren = cmp.getComponents();
var comp1 = wrapperChildren.add({
  style: { 'background-color': 'red'}
});
var comp2 = wrapperChildren.add({
  tagName: 'span',
  attributes: { title: 'Hello!'}
});
// Now let's add an other one inside first component
// First we have to get the collection inside. Each
// component has 'components' property
var comp1Children = comp1.get('components');
// Procede as before. You could also add multiple objects
comp1Children.add([
  { style: { 'background-color': 'blue'}},
  { style: { height: '100px', width: '100px'}}
]);
// Remove comp2
wrapperChildren.remove(comp2);
```

Returns **[Components][9]** Collection of components

## addComponent

Add new components to the wrapper's children. It's the same
as 'cmp.getComponents().add(...)'

### Parameters

*   `component` **([Object][10] | [Component] | [Array][11]<[Object][10]>)** Component/s to add

    *   `component.tagName` **[string][12]** Tag name (optional, default `'div'`)
    *   `component.type` **[string][12]** Type of the component. Available: ''(default), 'text', 'image' (optional, default `''`)
    *   `component.removable` **[boolean][13]** If component is removable (optional, default `true`)
    *   `component.draggable` **[boolean][13]** If is possible to move the component around the structure (optional, default `true`)
    *   `component.droppable` **[boolean][13]** If is possible to drop inside other components (optional, default `true`)
    *   `component.badgable` **[boolean][13]** If the badge is visible when the component is selected (optional, default `true`)
    *   `component.stylable` **[boolean][13]** If is possible to style component (optional, default `true`)
    *   `component.copyable` **[boolean][13]** If is possible to copy\&paste the component (optional, default `true`)
    *   `component.content` **[string][12]** String inside component (optional, default `''`)
    *   `component.style` **[Object][10]** Style object (optional, default `{}`)
    *   `component.attributes` **[Object][10]** Attribute object (optional, default `{}`)
*   `opt` **[Object][10]** the options object to be used by the \[Components.add][getComponents][14] method (optional, default `{}`)

### Examples

```javascript
// Example of a new component with some extra property
var comp1 = cmp.addComponent({
  tagName: 'div',
  removable: true, // Can't remove it
  draggable: true, // Can't move it
  copyable: true, // Disable copy/past
  content: 'Content text', // Text inside component
  style: { color: 'red'},
  attributes: { title: 'here' }
});
```

Returns **([Component] | [Array][11]<[Component]>)** Component/s added

## clear

Remove all components

### Parameters

*   `opts`   (optional, default `{}`)

Returns **this** 

## addType

Add new component type.
Read more about this in [Define New Component][15]

### Parameters

*   `type` **[string][12]** Component ID
*   `methods` **[Object][10]** Component methods

Returns **this** 

## getType

Get component type.
Read more about this in [Define New Component][15]

### Parameters

*   `type` **[string][12]** Component ID

Returns **[Object][10]** Component type definition, eg. `{ model: ..., view: ... }`

## removeType

Remove component type

### Parameters

*   `id` **[string][12]** 
*   `type` **[string][12]** Component ID

Returns **([Object][10] | [undefined][16])** Removed component type, undefined otherwise

## getTypes

Return the array of all types

Returns **[Array][11]** 

## isComponent

Check if the object is a \[Component].

### Parameters

*   `obj` **[Object][10]** 

### Examples

```javascript
cmp.isComponent(editor.getSelected()); // true
cmp.isComponent({}); // false
```

Returns **[Boolean][13]** 

## canMove

Check if a component can be moved inside another one.

### Parameters

*   `target` **[Component]** The target component is the one that is supposed to receive the source one.
*   `source` **([Component] | [String][12])** The source can be another component, a component definition or an HTML string.
*   `index` **[Number][17]?** Index position, if not specified, the check will be performed against appending the source to the target.

### Examples

```javascript
const rootComponent = editor.getWrapper();
const someComponent = editor.getSelected();

// Check with two components
editor.Components.canMove(rootComponent, someComponent);

// Check with component definition
editor.Components.canMove(rootComponent, { tagName: 'a', draggable: false });

// Check with HTML string
editor.Components.canMove(rootComponent, '<form>...</form>');
```

Returns **[Object][10]** Object containing the `result` (Boolean), `source`, `target` (as Components), and a `reason` (Number) with these meanings:*   `0` - Invalid source. This is a default value and should be ignored in case the `result` is true.
*   `1` - Source doesn't accept target as destination.
*   `2` - Target doesn't accept source.

[1]: https://github.com/GrapesJS/grapesjs/blob/master/src/dom_components/config/config.ts

[2]: #getwrapper

[3]: #getcomponents

[4]: #addcomponent

[5]: #clear

[6]: #addtype

[7]: #gettype

[8]: #gettypes

[9]: #components

[10]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[11]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[12]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[13]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[14]: getComponents

[15]: https://grapesjs.com/docs/modules/Components.html#define-new-component

[16]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/undefined

[17]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number
