<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## DataSource

The `DataSource` class represents a data source within the editor.
It manages a collection of data records and provides methods to interact with them.
The `DataSource` can be extended with transformers to modify records during add, read, and delete operations.

### DataSource API

*   [addRecord][1]
*   [getRecord][2]
*   [getRecords][3]
*   [removeRecord][4]

### Example of Usage

```js
const dataSource = new DataSource({
  records: [
    { id: 'id1', name: 'value1' },
    { id: 'id2', name: 'value2' }
  ],
}, { em: editor });

dataSource.addRecord({ id: 'id3', name: 'value3' });
```

### Parameters

*   `props` **DataSourceProps** Properties to initialize the data source.
*   `opts` **DataSourceOptions** Options to initialize the data source.

## defaults

Returns the default properties for the data source.
These include an empty array of records and an empty object of transformers.

Returns **[Object][5]** The default attributes for the data source.

## constructor

Initializes a new instance of the `DataSource` class.
It sets up the transformers and initializes the collection of records.
If the `records` property is not an instance of `DataRecords`, it will be converted into one.

### Parameters

*   `props` **DataSourceProps** Properties to initialize the data source.
*   `opts` **DataSourceOptions** Options to initialize the data source.

## records

Retrieves the collection of records associated with this data source.

Returns **DataRecords** The collection of data records.

## em

Retrieves the editor model associated with this data source.

Returns **EditorModel** The editor model.

## addRecord

Adds a new record to the data source.

### Parameters

*   `record` **DataRecordProps** The properties of the record to add.
*   `opts` **AddOptions?** Options to apply when adding the record.

Returns **DataRecord** The added data record.

## getRecord

Retrieves a record from the data source by its ID.

### Parameters

*   `id` **([string][6] | [number][7])** The ID of the record to retrieve.

Returns **(DataRecord | [undefined][8])** The data record, or `undefined` if no record is found with the given ID.

## getRecords

Retrieves all records from the data source.
Each record is processed with the `getRecord` method to apply any read transformers.

Returns **[Array][9]<(DataRecord | [undefined][8])>** An array of data records.

## removeRecord

Removes a record from the data source by its ID.

### Parameters

*   `id` **([string][6] | [number][7])** The ID of the record to remove.
*   `opts` **RemoveOptions?** Options to apply when removing the record.

Returns **(DataRecord | [undefined][8])** The removed data record, or `undefined` if no record is found with the given ID.

## setRecords

Replaces the existing records in the data source with a new set of records.

### Parameters

*   `records` **[Array][9]\<DataRecordProps>** An array of data record properties to set.

Returns **[Array][9]\<DataRecord>** An array of the added data records.

[1]: #addrecord

[2]: #getrecord

[3]: #getrecords

[4]: #removerecord

[5]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[6]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[7]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number

[8]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/undefined

[9]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array
